# Genetic Algorithms Proyect

This Python Proyect provides an implementation of genetic algorithms for solving optimization problems. Genetic algorithms are heuristic search algorithms inspired by the process of natural selection and genetics. They are often used to find approximate solutions to optimization and search problems.

## Features

- **GeneticAlgorithm class**: Provides a flexible framework for implementing genetic algorithms.
- **Customizable**: Easily customizable parameters such as population size, number of iterations, mutation rate, and crossover methods.
- **Support for Graph Problems**: Designed to handle graph-based optimization problems.
- **Well-Structured**: Organized and well-commented code for easy understanding and modification.
- **Scalable**: Suitable for small to large-scale optimization problems.

## Requirements
```bash
pip install netwokx
pip install numpy
pip install matplotlib
```

## Usage

```bash
# Example usage
Npop = 50  # Population size
Nit = 100  # Number of iterations
nodes = nodes # list of nodes of the graph
# Notice that the order of the nodes in the list represent the position number it will take in the adjacency matrix
# The position number starts in 0
# this is crucial to set the initial parameters
Max_length = max_length # the maximum length the chromosome can have
Adjacency = Adjacency # Adjacency Matrix for the corresponding graph
# This matrix can be generated by Networkx library or defined previously 
start_node = start # Start fixed node
end_node = End # End Fixed node

# Create a GeneticAlgorithm instance
ga = GeneticAlgorithm(Npop, Nit, nodes, max_length, adjacency ,start, end)
# Run the genetic algorithm
ga.run()
```

The Code features support for Networkx Python Library for visuals and automatic generation of graph 
## change history

### v1.0
- added the parameter nodes to the Genetic_algorithm class
- added the Answer method
with the added features the code shows an asnwer in terms of the nodes names in the graph insted to convert numbers to nodes 

### v0.2 
- Solved issue where the algorithm doesnt found a solution due to sometimes the whole population has an infinite fitness function 
- Deleted the parameters mu and xrat from Genetic_Algorithm Class that are not bean used
Reformat Run method to make it recursive and force the algorithm output to something less than infinite
### v0.1 first Realese
Realese of base code with a solution for the shortest path problem
